So far, we've shown relatively simple tags.
What I'd like to do now is to show an example of a
tag that does a number of things.
We're going to have a tag to which we can pass an attribute,
which we've seen before.
The tag itself is going to execute other tag libraries.
So in this case, we're going to use the for each tag from the core tag library.
And then to the tag itself,
we're actually going to pass fragments of JavaServer Pages
that the tag will then render as necessary.
So within the tag, depending on a specific condition,
we'll render a specific part of the page.
This tag will display a list of to-do items for this particular user.
Yes, yes, I know, to-do items again,
but in this case it's the simplest thing to show.
And we'll display these to-do items underneath the home pane.
So the first thing I want to do is to take the active attribute of
the profile pane and move that to the home pane.
The code in the application has changed slightly,
so inside the user class, we've had a getTodos and an addTodo method.
The getTodos method returns a list of to-do objects.
To-do object are here.
These are fairly simple, they have a description and a priority.
And there within the controller, when we create the user,
we've added a couple of to-dos for this user.
So we have a to-do called Finish Course with a priority of 1,
and a to-do a Go for a run with a priority of 3.
What we'd like to do is depending on the different priority for the
to-do is to display a different fragment of HTML,
and we can do that within the tag itself.
So the first thing to do is to add another tag.
So if we go back to our web app and WEB-INF and the tags folder,
in here we'll create a new file called priority.tag.
So again, this tag will need a tag attribute.
So same as before, we do less than percent at tag body-content.
But this time, the body of the tag will not be empty.
This time,
the body of the tag will contain the fragments that we're going
to use to display the data within the tag.
So we can't say empty.
In this case we say scriptless,
what scriptless means is that the body of the tag can contain other HTML,
it can contain other tags, it can contain expressions,
it just can't contain any JavaScript, and that's exactly what we want.
Once we have the tag attribute in place,
we then need to decide what the rest of the tag will look like.
So I want the tag to do several things.
It'll be passed an attribute, which is the user,
it will itself use other tags, it's going to use the core tag library,
and the tag will also be passed a couple of fragments,
jsp fragments, that we'll render within the tag.
So as before, we have a user attribute, it's required,
and it's of type com.mantiso .user.
We need to specify that we're going to use the core tag library.
So to do that, we just use the taglib directive,
the prefix of c, and the URI of the core tag library.
So before we write the rest of the tag,
let's take a look at how we want this tag to work.
And that will be in index.jsp.
So I want the tag to be used inside the home pane.
So here we'll say st:, and it's going to be our priority tag.
This will have a user, which will be dollar braces user,
as before, but now the tag itself won't be empty.
What we'll pass into here are two fragments of HTML,
one fragment to be used when the priority is low,
and one fragment to use when the priority is high of the given to-do item.
These will be passed in as attributes to the tag,
but they're not simple attributes like user is,
they are attributes that contain HTML.
And the way we do that is within the tag itself is
to use the jsp:attribute syntax.
So these attributes have a name,
so we'll have one called normalPriority and then
we'll have one call highPriority.
So I can just copy this, paste into the right place, and change the name.
Now at the moment,
IntelliJ is showing these in red as we haven't added
those attributes into the tag itself yet.
So the way we'll write the tag is for the tag to
create an ordered list of elements, one for each to-do item.
These attributes will then provide the list item to appear inside
that unordered list depending on the priority.
So each of these will contain an li element,
and each li element will have a couple of spans.
The first span will contain the description of the to-do item,
and the second span will contain its priority,
and this will be repeated for the highPriority element as well.
The difference with a highPriority element is that we add a class here,
which says highPriority,
and this will change the display of this particular element.
So this is how we want to use the tag itself.
So that means we now need to create these two attributes,
the normalPriority attribute and the highPriority attribute,
within the tag.
We also need to write the tag so that it iterates over each of the to-do items,
and then within each item displays the appropriate fragment.
So if we go back to our tag, in here need to add a couple of extra attributes.
So the first one, again, we're using the less than percent at syntax,
and we'll say less than percent at attribute.
So the name of this will be normalPriority.
And in this case,
we're not passing either a string or an object with a given type.
Instead, we're passing a fragment, so we say fragment=true.
So that says that I'm passing in a fragment of HTML,
and that fragment will be executed as part of this tag.
So again, I can copy that, paste it back in, and call this one highPriority.
So we now how to attributes passed in.
Now if we go back to the page where this tag will be used,
the index.jsp page,
we can see that each of these fragments is expecting to be
passed a description and the priority, but where do they come from?
Well they come from the tag itself.
So within the tag, within the priority tag,
we need to create a couple of variables that we can pass back out to the
outside world to allow the outside world to display them.
And we do that inside here by using the less than,
percent, and variable directive.
So variables have a name, that's name-given, and we'll create two.
We have a name-given of description and a name-given of priority.
And these will be used back on the page.
So, description here and priority here.
Once we have that in place, we can now write the actual body of the tag.
So we said the body will be an unordered list.
So we can say ul, then within that list,
we iterate over each of the to-do items for this given user.
So we can say c:forEach.
Inside the forEach we'll have an items, the items is user.todos,
that comes from our user object.
I'm going to give this a variable name, which we'll just call todo.
So inside here, we have to do two things.
We have to set the description and priority variables
that will pass by the outside world.
Once we've done that, we then need to execute the appropriate fragment.
So to set these variables, we do c:set var=description,
and the value comes from the to-do itself.
So we say value=$ todo.description.
And again, the same for priority.
So we say var=priority value= todo.priority.
So they are set.
We are now ready to execute the appropriate fragment to set the description
of the priority with the appropriate display information,
so the appropriate class used for the CSS.
To do that,
we first need to test to see if we have a highPriority
or a normalPriority todo element.
Again, we can use the core tag library, so we can say c:if test=,
and in here we just use $ todo.priority = 1.
So that'll be our normalPriority.
Then we do the same thing again,
so we can say test todo.priority is greater than 1,
and that gives us our high priority.
So for normal priority, we want to execute the normalPriority fragment,
that's this guy, and for high priority,
we want to execute the highPriority fragment.
We do that from within the tag by using another JSP element called jsp invoke.
So I say jsp:invoke.
This has a fragment attribute,
and the fragment for this one is going to be normalPriority.
And for this one, the fragment would be highPriority.
So to recap what we've done, we've created a tag,
and the body content is scriptless,
which means we can execute other tag codes from within the JSP,
or we can execute things like expressions inside it.
The tag has an attribute called user, an attribute called normalPriority,
which is a fragment, and an attribute called highPriority,
which is also a fragment.
The tag is using the core tag library itself,
so within our tag we are making use of other tags.
And our tag will set two variables, a description variable and priority variable.
So the output from the tag will be an unordered list.
And then for each to-do item that we have,
we will execute the appropriate fragments,
either normalPriority if our priority is 1,
or highPriority if our priority is greater than 1.
Before executing the fragments, we set a couple of variables,
a description variable and a priority variable.
Back on the page, we use the tag, so we have st:priority,
we pass in the user, and we supply the two fragments to use.
It supplies those attributes, so we have an attribute here for normalPriority,
and an attribute here called highPriority.
Each of these is very similar,
except for the highPriority attribute we pass in an li
with a class set to highPriority.
So again if I go back to the browser and I refresh,
I should go to the Home tab on the browser,
and the Home tab should list the to-dos.
So if we go to the page and refresh, it doesn't work,
so if we go back to the code and check this,
we can see here the tests are wrong.
So if we say todo.priority is 1 and todo.priority is greater than 1,
again go back to the browser and refresh,
and it shows up.
So for this,
we have the list item in normal and this one with the appropriate class applied.
So it's white text on a red background, not the best bit of UI in the world, but it serves its purpose.